# Philosophy

One of my original employees coined the statement "Rule \#1, don’t kill the customer". As obvious as this might sound, it is a rule that needs to be remembered. In the food service industry, if you are not paying attention to doing things properly and safely, you can cause the customer to get sick and even die. Food not kept at the right temperature or not rotated properly can cause people to get sick and very young and elderly people can die as a result. I am very good at giving second chances to employees when they make a mistake, but if someone violates customer safety just to get something done quickly or out of laziness, I have no option but to terminate their employment. I don’t ever terminate an employee without giving them a fair chance, and if you make a mistake because you don’t know, I will never terminate for that. If you know the proper procedure and don’t follow it, then termination will be immediate. I never want to read a headline that says a customer died from eating at Café Luwak.

Safety is obviously rule number one. The next rule is to always treat the customer courteously and with respect. People go out to eat to get away from home or work, and they want to be able to relax and be comfortable. Try to always think about how you would be feeling if you were the customer and what you would expect. If you have a question about how to do something and no one is around to give you an answer, the rule of thumb is to do what you would expect if you were the customer. If you have a question on a portion size that looks too small for the price, then give a little extra and ask someone when you get the chance. Our goal is to keep the customer coming back. We don’t make very much off of one sandwich. The way we survive is by having customers come back every week and buy a sandwich. Remember the customer is always right. This can be very painful sometimes when you know they are wrong, but we want to do our best to satisfy everyone we can.

The third rule has to do with working with the other staff. I would say 90% of the time when I let someone go it is because they couldn’t work with the other employees. I have had to let some people go who were great with the customers and always had positive comments, but couldn’t pull their weight with the regular chores or move quick enough in a rush. When the moral of the rest of the employees starts to go down because of one individual, then I know it is time for a change. I don’t expect all my staff to be best friends, but when they are working with each other, they must realize this is a job, and you have to respect each other and do their fair share. Things like calling off all the time and disappearing during a shift or taking multiple smoke breaks are all things that will cause resentment from the other employees when they have to make up for the lack of work.

The fourth rule is to have fun. I try very hard to make this a flexible friendly environment for my employees. I like employees who can joke around while they work, and I am probably the least intimidating boss you will ever have. In this business we have days where all there is to do is hangout and clean and try to have fun while doing it. On other days you won’t have a minute where you aren’t rushing around trying to get food out, ice cream scooped, or deal with a line of customers. Both types of days can be fun if you have the right attitude. With the right attitude even dealing with upset customers can be pretty easy.

There are typically two types of people who end up working for me. The first type likes multitasking and having a lot of variety in there job from day to day. The second is someone who likes to be assigned a single task and that is all this person does throughout their shift. If you are one of the people who fall into the category of the second person, you are not going to be happy here. This is a small company and there really is only one job title, and you do it all. For me and most of the people who I like to work with, this makes the place an exciting working environment with a lot of opportunities to learn new things and not get bored.

On a personal note, I think I run a good business. I don’t make any money doing this yet, but hopefully that will come someday. I still go out for beers with ex employees, at Christmas I get calls from employees who have moved away. Any time one of my old employees comes to town they stop in and say hi. I have even been invited to several weddings. I may be delusional, but I don’t think people who used to work for me would go through that effort if they didn’t have a positive experience working here. I really hope this continues to be the case with every new employee I hire.

Welcome

